"Right then," said Towerblock, his normal confidence reasserting itself at the worst possible time, "off we fuck!"

"No!" roared the colonel, enraged. "Not 'off we fuck'! Fuck off! Fuck off onto the heli, then fuck off onto the plane, then carry on fucking off out of Afghanistan! Go on, fuck off!"

Towerblock's face fell, and he turned, hefted his gear and scrambled up the ramp into the cavernous belly of the Chinook. He tuned out Mac making some horrifically inappropriate comment and watched his home fall away beneath him.

Far below, the colonel smirked to himself. Flawless. Corporal Lansley and six teams from the close protection force would get to carry out an extensive exercise, and by the time Bluestone 42 were boarding the Voyager to fly home, Simon would be there waiting for him. Captain Best would get the benefit of experiencing this kind of personnel failure without actually driving someone into desertion, and the Colonel could use the improptu Operation Round-Up chopper to get to Bastion before anyone else and get to Hibiscus on time. Best of all, he'd gotten to shout himself hoarse at someone. Colonel Smith liked shouting, it was very relaxing.

===

The sun was rising over Bastion, and Flying Officer Brent and his pilot commanding, Flight Lieutenant the Honourable William Baxter, were sipping coffee and discussing that day's flight. While flight briefings were supposed to be an important part of flight preparation, the fact was that they had both done the Bastion-Brize run about a hundred times and the novelty was somewhat wearing thin. Even with the coffee, neither of them were all that alert. Neither of them heard the window slowly open. Neither of them saw something poke through the gap, and though they both heard someone whisper "Imperio!", by then it was far too late.

===

After an exhausting night stretched out on cardboard mattresses, the remaining members of Bluestone 42 were in very bad moods. Captain Best was clearly consumed with guilt, staring out the window of the small concrete waiting room. Their victory in denying the Taliban a crashed Reaper drone had turned to ash with Simon's desertion. The rest of the team sat on the low concrete benches, draped in their gear and with bags of supplies draped around. Mac and Rocket were bickering quietly in the corner about something obscure and Scottish, and neither Towerblock or Bird were in any mood to talk. 

Suddenly the tin door of the hut slammed open, and the team turned to glare at the intruder.

"Good morning!" said Lance-Corporal Simon Lansley, smirking at them.

"Simon!" gasped Bird.

"Fucking hell!" said Mac. Rocket was too stunned to say anything, and Towerblock fell off his bench in shock. Simon, however, had eyes only for his beloved Ellen Best - who was looking at him with a mix of horror and disgust.

"Corporal Lansley!" she barked, "stay where you are. Towerblock, call the MPs."

The team erupted in confusion as Ellen's strident voice cut over them. "Call the MPs, Towerblock, Corporal Lansley went AWOL and we can't ignore that."

"No, I didn't!" said Simon smiling, holding up a piece of paper. "Can't go absent without leave if you've got leave!"

"Give me that!" snapped Ellen, snatching it from him. "I, Colonel Phillip Rupert Smith, hereby authorise Corporal Lansley to... go *camping*?!"

"It cannot fucking say that!" said Towerblock, leaning in for a look. 

"But it does," said the Colonel himself, appearing in the room as if by magic, although in fact by stepping through the door. "What's the first rule? Always get permission before going AWOL."

"But sir - !" started Ellen, before the Colonel carried on regardless.

"Now, then, let's all get on the plane and go home before anything else can go wrong."

====

"Ladies and gentlemen, this is your captain speaking. I'm afraid we've developed a technical fault and are diverting to the nearest airfield."

"Aw, fae fuck's sake!" said Mac, throwing his arms in the air. "Fuckin' Crabs!"