Ship's Systems Report
FAO Commander Anatrie Kheim, Commanding Officer, USS Shanghai
From: Lieutenant George Carlisle, USS Shanghai
Copied to: Lieutenant Commander Anahera Chernova, USS Shanghai

Principal Systems

Life Support

Generators
Life support atmospheric and heating generators are located on Decks B, 2, 6, 11 and 15, with smaller auxiliary generators on every deck. All generators are working normally.
Distribution
Life support distribution systems are colocated with EPS conduits on all decks. All distribution systems are working normally.
Reclaimation
Distribution conduits feed back to Primary Environmental Control on Deck 16, where waste products are extracted from the airflow and passed to Waste Management for recycling or reclaimation.
Filtering
Biological and particle filters are installed in distribution conduit between each deck, between each section and every 200 meters. All filters are monitored centrally from Primary Environmental and must be replaced every 10,000 hours or following a major incident. Next filters due for replacement are Deck 6, Section 1, in 244 hours.
Structural Integrity

Field Generators
Primary SIF generators are located on decks A, 3, 10 and 18 and are all functioning normally. Secondary generators are found on each deck and are all functioning normally.
Field Distribution and Amplification nodes
SIF distribution nodes can be found on each deck as well as within the catamaran spars. Each node is rated for 6,000 hours at normal operation and were all replaced by Starbase prior to departure.
Amplification nodes can be found on each deck and are organised into "alpha" rings (for reinforcing the outer hull) and "beta" rings (for reinforcing internal bulkheads and deckheads). All amplification nodes are functioning normally following mandatory replacement of alpha rings on Decks 8-18.
Power Generation

Warp Core
The Shanghai's warp core is a Mark Six, capable of producing up to 2.1x10^10 terawatts. All ancilliary equipment including matter/antimatter injectors and magnetic constrictors were serviced by Spacedock and are rated for 20,000 hours under standard conditions.
Matter/Antimatter Containment/Distribution
Deuterium storage capacity is 60,500m3 and antimatter storage capacity is 285m3, stored within 155 antimatter pods on decks 16-18. All fuel supplies were fully topped off before leaving Spacedock. Our maximum cruise length at Warp Six is six years, eight months and twenty-two days. All fuel distribution systems are working normally.
Electro-plasma distribution network
The EPS network is responsible for converting power generated by the warp core into usable energy for all ships systems. 22% of our EPS conduits were replaced by Spacedock. The next system that needs regular maintainence are the EPS taps on Deck Twelve, which will require maintainence within the next 400 hours.
Propulsion Systems

Warp drive
Our warp drive system was fully inspected by Spacedock and given a clean bill of health following mandatory replacement of our starboard plasma conduit and related systems. Diagnostics show no detectable faults.
-- Warp plasma conduits
Warp plasma conduits were inspected by Spacedock and the starboard conduit was replaced. The port conduit has been certified has having at least 7,500 hours remaining before mandatory replacement.
-- Warp field coils
All starboard field coils were replaced along with the plasma conduit. All port coils have been certified as having greater than 7,500 hours remaining, at which point they will be replaced with the port conduit.
-- Warp plasma injectors
All starboard injectors were replaced with the starboard conduit and field coils. All port injectors have been inspected and have a service life greater than 7,500 hours, except injectors 2, 5 and 7 which have been rated at only 5,000 hours. Replacement of these injectors was denied by authority of Lieutenant Commander Skorb.
Impulse drive
Our impulse drive was fully inspected and certified by Spacedock as part of the plasma conduit replacement program. An updated plenum has been installed allowing a new maximum cruising speed of .35c, although flank speed remains at .92c
-- Impulse fusion reactors
All sixteen primary and four secondary reactors were inspected by Spacedock. Primary reactors 4,8 and 10 and secondary reactor 3 underwent mandatory replacement due to unexpected wear of the fuel pump. All remaining reactors were certified although advisory notices were applied, requiring regular manual examination of the fuel pumps until the cause of the wear can be identified.
-- Vectored thrust nozzle plenum
A new nozzle plenum has been installed. This nozzle has been certified by Spacedock at 10,000 hours continuous use. Based on typical usage patterns, this is effectively about five years.
Emergency/RCS/attitude adjustment thrusters
All emergency thrusters were tested and inspected prior to leaving Spacedock and are working normally. RCS packages were serviced and recertified by Spacedock.
-- Thruster fuel storage
While emergency thrusters are usually fueled from the impulse generators, each one is co-located with a dedicated emergency fuel supply. Each one stores 150m3. All fuel storages were fully topped off before leaving Spacedock.
Computer Systems

Primary Core
The primary computer core on Decks 6-8 is a latest-generation system, equipped with isolinear optical chips, transtator FTL nanoprocessors and bioneural gelpack sub-processors. It was fully serviced by Spacedock prior to departure and is fully operational.
TIC Subsidaries
There are two subsidary cores in the rollbar pod, one on Deck A and one on Deck C. Each is a duplicate of the other, designed to take over in the event of battle damage. These computer cores are optimized to handle the tactical systems and cannot be used to replace the primary core. The Deck A core was replaced by Spacedock and both cores are now functioning normally.
Secondary Core and Auxiliary Systems
The secondary computer core on Deck 16 is capable of supporting basic operations in the event that the primary core is taken offline. However, its considerably reduced capacity compared to the primary core means that it is not able to support normal operations, especially the function of the flight-deck engineering equipment. The secondary core is functioning normally.
Optical Data Network
The ODN is colocated with the EPS conduits and was fully inspected prior to departure. Faulty or damaged sections on decks 8 and 11 were replaced and the entire network is reporting normal function on diagnostics.
Transporters

Primary (ship-to-surface)
4 6-slot primary transporters are located on Decks 10 and 15. Transporter Room 3 was completely replaced by Spacedock as its service life had expired. All transporter rooms are functioning normally.
Secondary (site-to-site)
Four site-to-site transporter rooms have been installed to aid movement about the ship. Two are located in the rollbar pod, one on Deck A and one on Deck D. The other two are on Deck 12 for access to the shuttlebay and Deck 2 for access to the bridge. All four secondary transporter rooms are functioning normally.
Waste management and disposal
Waste management and disposal is located on Deck 18. The entire system was inspected by Spacedock and certified for long-term use. There are no outstanding issues.
Tractor beam

Primary tractor beam control and emitters are on Deck 16 aft, although as part of the refit additional tractor emitters were installed - two on deck 15 aft, and two on Deck 13 forward. These emitters are intended to support loading/unloading operations. All five emitters were inspected and certified by Spacedock.
Replicators

All non-industrial replicator systems have been tested since departure and no faults were recorded. However, the replicator database is an obsolete version. Request to update the database at a starbase has been filed with the captain's yeoman.
Artificial gravity

All AG systems were inspected and certified by Spacedock. AG generators on Decks C and 14 were replaced in accordance with standard service guidelines, as was the grav platings on Deck 4 section 3, Deck 8 section 10 and Deck 18 section 2.
Holodecks/Holosuites

All holographic systems were inspected and certified by Spacedock prior to departure. All systems are functioning normally.
Tactical Systems

Shields

Primary Generators
Eight primary shield generators provide the automodulating regenerative shields. All eight were serviced by Spacedock and as a result, generators 1 and 2 were replaced. Generator 4 was issued an advisory note for replacement but this was denied by authority of Lieutenant Commander Skorb.
Secondary and Emergency Generators
All secondary and emergency generators were serviced by Spacedock and are funtioning normally.
Shield Projection and Distribution Systems
All shield projectors have been tested and are functioning normally. Shield energy distribution manifolds on Decks A and B were replaced due to exceeding mandatory replacement wear levels.
Metaphasic Shield Generators and Projectors
All four metaphasic shield generators were replaced by Spacedock due to excessive wear. All metaphasic shield projectors were tested and functioning normally.
Main Deflector
Main deflector array has been tested and is functioning normally. Rated service life is 9,700 hours at standard usage patterns.
Anti-particle and anti-radiation "navigational" shields
All navigational shields have been tested and are functioning normally.
Weapons

Phaser arrays
All phaser arrays were inspected and certified by Spacedock. All arrays have greater than 1,000 hours use except Number 4 (port ventral) which is rated at only 850 hours. Mandatory replacement regulations do not require replacement until use is below 500 hours.
-- Phaser energy subsystems
All phaser energy subsystems were inspected and certified by Spacedock, except for the secondary EPS conduits for array Number 4, which were uncertified. Insufficient time was available for the replacement of these EPS conduits to be carried out. In the event of primary conduit failure, array Number 4 will be able to draw power from array Number 3 (starboard ventral).
Torpedo launchers
All torpedo launchers were inspected and certified by Spacedock. Rollbar launchers two and three were replaced as they had exceeded mandatory replacement guidelines. Advisory notes were applied to both port launchers due to wear on launcher hatch seals. Replacement of these launchers was not carried out due to lack of appropriate parts.
-- Torpedo magazine and loading systems
All torpedo magazines were fully loaded prior to departure from Spacedock. All torpedo manufacturing facilities were fully stocked. All torpedo loading systems were fully inspected and certified, although advisory notes were applied to the port loading systems due to wear on launcher hatch seals.
Point defence batteries
All PD batteries were inspected and certified by Spacedock. Batteries 8-10 required replacement of targetting components which was carried out by Spacedock.
Tri-cobalt devices
All tricobalt devices were checked by Spacedock prior to departure. All passed diagnostic checks.
Defensive Systems
Ablative Armour
The outer armour was fully inspected by Spacedock and sections on Decks D, 2 and 3 were replaced. The armour has been certified by Spacedock.
Cloaking Device
Inspected and certified by Spacedock and functioning normally.
Small Craft
Runabouts
-- Huangpo
Runabout Hunagpo underwent mandatory servicing and recertification at Spacedock, which resulted in a downcheck due to excessive injector coil wear. Due to the nature of the Shanghai's modifications, it was decided to retain the runabout and make repairs out of local resources rather than leave it at the starbase, as no suitable replacement was available.
-- Suzhou
Runabout Suzhou underwent mandatory servicing and recertification at Spacedock. All systems were certified as functioning within normal parameters.
Type 9 Shuttles (4)
--Xuhui
--Changning
--Jing'an
--Putuo
All four Type 9 shuttles have undergone inspection and are ready for service in all respects.
Type 10 Shuttles (2)
--Hongkou
--Yangpu
Both Type 10 shuttles have undergone inspection and are ready for service in all respects.
Type 11 Shuttles (4)
--Minhang
--Baoshan
--Jiading
--Jinshan
All four Type 11 shuttles have undergone inspection. Excepting Baoshan, they are ready for service in all respects. Baoshan has a total failure of its warp field stabiliser. While this can be repaired out of local resources, the shuttle is currently unavailable for service.
Wyvern Hoppers (4)
--Leicester
--Mercia
--Valanciana
--Apothecary
All four Wyvern-class hoppers were inspected since their previous use, and are ready for service in all respects.
Brunel Workpods (4)
--Thames
--Clifton
--Hungerford
--Royal Albert
All four Brunel-class workpods were inspected and certified by Spacedock within the last twelve months, prior to their transfer to the Shanghai. They are ready for service in all respects.
Workbee Workpods (4)
--Leafcutter
--Carpenter
--Orchid
--Cuckoo
All four Workbee-class workpods were inspected and certified by Spacedock within the last twelve months, prior to their transfer to the Shanghai. They are ready for service in all respects.
Science Systems

Main sensor pallet and subsystems
Consisting of the high-senstivity passive systems as well as high-resolution active systems, Shanghai's main sensor pallet is an older Mark 22, with a maximum long-range resolution of 200 millicochranes at 10 light-years. However, advancements in subsidiary systems have improved both the long- and short-range proficiency of the Mark 22. The system is functioning normally.
Secondary sensor systems
Secondary or backup sensor installations, both for lateral and longitudial sensor assemblies, are found on Decks 5, 10 and 17. While each assembly is less powerful and less sensitive than the primary, with all secondary systems working together a detection ability of similar power can be achieved. The sensor system has undergone a full diagnostic and is functioning normally.
Subspace sensors
The Shanghai's Mark 22 requires a separate installation for the subspace sensor equipment to mitigate cross-channel interference. This installation has been inspected and certified by Spacedock prior to departure, and is funtioning normally.
Primary radar/lidar system (tactical)
This system has been tested and is functioning normally.
Secondary radar/lidar systems (navigational)
This system was not inspected by Spacedock, and cannot be tested while at warp. Request for sublight testing has been filed with the captain's yeoman.
Visual sensors
Visual sensors were past their mandatory replacement time prior to the Shanghai's arrival at Spacedock, and the entire assembly was replaced following initial survey. The new installation has a rated service life of 25,000 hours at standard usage.
Chroniton/graviton sensors
Colocated with the subspace sensor equipment due to shared components, this installation required specific inspection by Spacedock. This was carried out and the installation properly certified. This system has been tested and is functioning normally.
Probe control
The Shanghai is only equipped with the new-model probes, capable of being launched from standard torpedo tubes. Therefore, probe storage and control has been moved to the rollbar pod.
-- Probe launchers
All dedicated probe launchers were downchecked and decommisioned due to the assignment of the new-model probes. Request to move subspace sensor installation to forward probe launcher compartment following removal of existing installation by a starbase has been filed with the captain's yeoman.
-- Probe storage/loading
Probe loading systems have been tested and are functioning normally. Probe storage has been moved to the rollbar pod and fully loaded prior to departure from Spacedock.
Communications Systems

Subspace transceiver array
Subspace transceiver array was not inspected by Spacedock due to previous certification still covering over 1,000 hours continuous use. System has undergone a full diagnostic and is functioning normally.
Laser communications system
As an emergency-only system, this system was not inspected by Spacedock. It has been tested and is funtioning normally.
Short-range radio transmitter/antenna
As an emergency-only system, this system was not inspected by Spacedock. It has been tested and is funtioning normally.
Signalling lamps
As an emergency-only system, this system was not inspected by Spacedock. It has been tested and is funtioning normally.
Comm badge synchronisation and internal comms system
Internal communication system was inspected and certified by Spacedock. The system has undergone a full diagnostic and is functioning normally.
Construction/Manufactory Systems
All these systems were installed by Spacedock and have been inspected and certified by the installing teams. Full diagnostics are being carried out but have not been completed at this time. Issues detected so far are noted below.

Auxillary Fusion Reactors
Aux Reactor 3's service history indicated it has gone through an uncontrolled shutdown in the last three months. Spacedock's certification does not contain a Form 1107-AR to confirm the cause of this shutdown has been rectified. A shutdown notice has been applied by authority of Lieutenant Carlisle
Industrial replicators
Sample patterns have been replicated to test replicator capacity. All tests so far have been successful.
Cargo Transporters
Cargo transporters have only been tested and certified from one transporter pad to another. Non-pad targets should be visually confirmed clear prior to any such transport.
Automated assembly systems
All automated assembly systems have passed diagnostics and are functioning normally.
Equipment fabricators
All equipment fabricators are undergoing diagnostics and testing. Results will be filed with the captain's yeoman when complete.
Raw-material reclaimators
Both raw-material reclaimators were inspected and certified prior to installation. No post-installation certification is available. As these models do not require post-installation certification (it is merely 'recommended') no official action has been taken. However, caution is advised until full diagnostics and controlled testing can be carried out
REPORT ENDS
